When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
Fossil records from two million years ago show evidence of jaguars.
The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.
Cats dislike citrus scent.
Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.
A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
Cats have 300 million neurons; dogs have about 160 million
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).
Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.
Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.
In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.
Cats with long, lean bodies are more likely to be outgoing, and more protective and vocal than those with a stocky build.
The little tufts of hair in a cat’s ear that help keep out dirt direct sounds into the ear, and insulate the ears are called “ear furnishings.”
The cheetah is the world's fastest land mammal. It can run at speeds of up to 70 miles an hour (113 kilometers an hour).
Cats have 30 teeth (12 incisors, 10 premolars, 4 canines, and 4 molars), while dogs have 42. Kittens have baby teeth, which are replaced by permanent teeth around the age of 7 months.
Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.
Unlike dogs, cats do not have a sweet tooth. Scientists believe this is due to a mutation in a key taste receptor.
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
If they have ample water, cats can tolerate temperatures up to 133 °F.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.
The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
Polydactyl cats (a cat with 1-2 extra toes on their paws) have this as a result of a genetic mutation. These cats are also referred to as 'Hemingway cats' because writer Ernest Hemingway reportedly owned dozens of them at his home in Key West, Florida.
Among many other diseases, cats can suffer from anorexia, senility, feline AIDS and acne.
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
Cats have about 130,000 hairs per square inch (20,155 hairs per square centimeter).
The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.
The life expectancy of cats has nearly doubled since 1930 - from 8 to 16 years.
Grown cats have 30 teeth. Kittens have about 26 temporary teeth, which they lose when they are about 6 months old.
Cats bury their feces to cover their trails from predators.
Cats are now Britain's favourite pet: there are 7.7 million cats as opposed to 6.6 million dogs.
Cats take between 20-40 breaths per minute.
Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.
A cat's brain is more similar to a man's brain than that of a dog.
Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
Some common houseplants poisonous to cats include: English Ivy, iris, mistletoe, philodendron, and yew.
The most popular pedigreed cat is the Persian cat, followed by the Main Coon cat and the Siamese cat.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.
Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!
The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
The biggest wildcat today is the Siberian Tiger. It can be more than 12 feet (3.6 m) long (about the size of a small car) and weigh up to 700 pounds (317 kg).
Female felines are \superfecund
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
A cat's hearing is much more sensitive than humans and dogs.
Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
It is estimated that cats can make over 60 different sounds.
Cats respond better to women than to men, probably due to the fact that women's voices have a higher pitch.
Cats dislike citrus scent.
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
Neutering a male cat will, in almost all cases, stop him from spraying (territorial marking), fighting with other males (at least over females), as well as lengthen his life and improve its quality.
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.
Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.
The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.
Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
In multi-cat households, cats of the opposite sex usually get along better.
Cats see six times better in the dark and at night than humans.
The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.
Cats only use their meows to talk to humans, not each other. The only time they meow to communicate with other felines is when they are kittens to signal to their mother.
A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.
In an average year, cat owners in the United States spend over $2 billion on cat food.
Cats eat grass to aid their digestion and to help them get rid of any fur in their stomachs.
